# BetaX Community: Enhancing Urban Commute Data for Safe and Optimal Travel

## Overview

BetaX Community is a platform designed to enable urban residents to
collaboratively enhance commute data, fostering an environment for
safe and optimal travel for everyone. Originally initiated in
Antananarivo, Madagascar, the project aims to extend its reach to
other urban areas in the Indian Ocean region and East Africa.

## History

The inception of BetaX Community can be traced back to a college
project by Marius Rabenarivo (@puchka) and his friends while studying
at ESPA (Ecole Supérieure Polytechnique d'Antananarivo). Their initial
goal was to assist people in finding bus lines within
Antananarivo. This project attracted the attention of the Institut des
Métiers de la Ville (IMV), which sought collaboration to provide
mapping data and information related to bus lines and stops. However,
the raw data proved to be unexploitable without significant
enhancement and cleaning.

To address this, BetaX Community was established, aiming to create a
tool-chain that enables community members to contribute to the
improvement and cleaning of mapping data. The initiative began as a
repository on Marius's GitHub
(https://github.com/puchka/BetaX-Community), where he partnered with
Tsiry Sandratraina (@tsirysndr) to develop the initial tooling
necessary for this task.

## Vision

The vision of BetaX Community is to build a collaborative community
dedicated to enhancing transportation-related data in urban areas of
third-world countries. By leveraging community effort, the initiative
aims to make it easier to develop applications that address
transportation challenges in these underserved regions. Through
collective action, BetaX Community strives to improve urban mobility,
ensuring safer and more efficient travel for all.

## Join Us

BetaX Community is open to anyone interested in contributing to the
enhancement of urban commute data. Whether you are a developer, data
scientist, urban planner, or simply passionate about improving urban
transportation, your contributions are valuable. Together, we can
create a platform that benefits everyone, making urban travel safer
and more efficient.

For more information and to get involved, visit our GitHub
repositories: https://github.com/orgs/BetaX-Community/repositories
